.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/doc/Japanese/man/SuperProbe.1x,v 1.1.2.2 1999/11/26 15:23:31 hohndel Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 The X Japanese Documentation Project.B
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, dis-
.\" tribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
.\" persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the fol-
.\" lowing conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABIL-
.\" ITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT
.\" SHALL  THE X JAPANESE DOCUMENTATION PROJECT  BE  LIABLE  FOR  ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,  TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM,  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The X Japanese
.\" Documentation Project shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to
.\" promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior
.\" written authorization from The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\"
.\" Translated Mon Nov 23 06:34:48 JST 1998
.\"         by Taketoshi Sano <xlj06203@nifty.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SuperProbe 1 "Release 6.3 (XFree86 3.3.5/SuperProbe 2.20)" "X Version 11"
.SH 名前
.\"0 SuperProbe - probe for and identify installed video hardware.
SuperProbe \- インストールされているビデオハードウェアの調査と検出
.SH 書式
.B SuperProbe
	[-verbose] [-no16] [-excl \fIlist\fP] [-mask10] 
.if n .br
	[-order \fIlist\fP] [-noprobe \fIlist\fP] [-bios \fIbase\fP] 
.br
	[-no_bios] [-no_dac] [-no_mem] [-info]
.SH 説明
.PP
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 is a a program that will attempt to determine the type of video hardware
.\"0 installed in an EISA/ISA/VLB-bus system by checking for known registers 
.\"0 in various combinations at various locations (MicroChannel and PCI machines 
.\"0 may not be fully supported; many work with the use of the
.\"0 .B -no_bios
.\"0 option).  This is an error-prone process, especially on Unix (which 
.\"0 usually has a lot more esoteric hardware installed than MS-DOS system do), so 
.\"0 SuperProbe may likely need help from the user.
.I SuperProbe
はいろいろなアドレスに存在する既知のレジスタをさまざまな組み合わせで
調べることにより、 EISA/ISA/VLB バスを通じてシステムにインストール
されているビデオハードウェアの種類を判定するためのプログラムである。
(マイクロチャンネルおよび PCI のシステムはまだ完全にはサポートされて
いない。ただし、
.B -no_bios
オプションを使用することで、多くの場合対応可能である。) これは特に Unix システム (通常 MS-DOS システムに比較してより多くの隠された
ハードウェアを持つ) の場合、間違いを生じやすい処理であり、このため SuperProbe の使用には注意が必要である。
.PP
.\"0 .I SuperProbe 
.\"0 runs on SVR3, SVR4, Linux, 386BSD/FreeBSD/NetBSD, Minix-386, and Mach.  It
.\"0 should be trivial to extend it to work on any other Unix-like operating 
.\"0 system, and even non-Unix operating systems.  All of the OS dependencies 
.\"0 are isolated to a single file for each OS.
.I SuperProbe 
プログラムは SVR3, SVR4, Linux, 386BSD/FreeBSD/NetBSD, Minix-386, および Mach 上で動作する。その他の Unix-like なオペレーティングシステム、また Unix 以外のオペレーティングシステムであっても、それらの上で動作するように
拡張する方法はすぐにわかるはずである。 OS に依存するコードはすべて、各 OS に
それぞれ用意されたひとつの専用ファイルに収められ、他のコードと分離されている。
.PP
.\"0 At this time,
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 can identify MDA, Hercules, CGA, MCGA, EGA, VGA, and an entire horde of
.\"0 SVGA chipsets (see the
.\"0 .I -info
.\"0 option, below).  It can also identify several HiColor/True-color RAMDACs
.\"0 in use on SVGA boards, and the amount of video memory installed (for many
.\"0 chipsets).  It can identify 8514/A and some derivatives, but
.\"0 not XGA, or PGC (although the author intends to add those capabilities).
.\"0 Nor can it identify other esoteric video hardware (like Targa, TIGA, or 
.\"0 Microfield boards).
現時点では、
.I SuperProbe
プログラムにより MDA, Hercules, CGA, MCGA, EGA, VGA, および
各種の SVGA チップセット (下記の
.I -info
オプションを参照) を識別可能である。また SVGA ボード上で使用されるいくつかの
種類の HiColor/True-color RAMDACs および (チップセットによるが、多くの場合)
インストールされているビデオメモリーの量も識別できる。詳しく言うと 8514/A 
およびその派生品は識別できるが XGA あるいは PGC は (コード開発者はこれらの
機能を追加しようとしてはいるが) まだ認識できない。また ( Targa, TIGA, 
あるいは Microfield などのボードのように) その他の情報が公開されていないビデオ
ハードウェアについても識別不可能である。
.SH オプション
.TP 8
.B "-verbose"
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 will be verbose and provide lots of information as it does its work.
.I SuperProbe
プログラム動作時の出力を冗長にし、通常より多くの情報を表示する。
.TP 8
.B "-no16"
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 will not attempt to use any ports that require 16-bit I/O address decoding.  
.\"0 The original ISA bus only specified that I/O ports be decoded to 10 bits.
.\"0 Therefore some old cards (including many 8-bit cards) will mis-decode 
.\"0 references to ports that use the upper 6 bits, and may get into funny states
.\"0 because they think that they are being addressed when they are not.
.\"0 It is recommended that this option be used initially if any 8-bit cards
.\"0 are present in the system.
.I SuperProbe
プログラムは I/O アドレスを 16 ビットとして解読する必要のあるポートを使用しない。
オリジナル ISA バスは I/O ポートを 10 ビットとして解読するようにのみ規定して
いた。このため、 (多くの 8 ビットカードを含む) いくつかの古いカードは
上位 6 ビットを使用するポートへの参照を解釈できず、呼び出されていない時に
自分が呼ばれたものと誤認識してしまい、結果として妙な状態に陥ってしまう。
システム中に 8 ビットカードが存在する場合には、起動時にこのオプションを指定して
おくこと。
.TP 8
.BI "-excl" "\ list"
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 will not attempt to access any I/O ports on the specified exclusion list.
.\"0 Some video cards use rather non-standard I/O ports that may conflict with
.\"0 other cards installed in your system.  By specifying to
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 a list of ports already in use, it will know that there cannot be any video
.\"0 cards that use those ports, and hence will not probe them (which could
.\"0 otherwise confuse your hardware).  The exclusion list is specified as
.\"0 a comma-separated list of I/O ports or port ranges.  A range is specified
.\"0 as "low-high", and is inclusive.  The ports can be specified in decimal,
.\"0 in octal (numbers begin with '0'), or hexadecimal (numbers begin with '0x').
.I SuperProbe
プログラムは指定された除外リストに含まれる I/O ポートへアクセスしない。
ある種のビデオカードは、システムにインストールされた他のカードと衝突するような
一般的でない I/O ポートを使用する。
既に使われているポートのリストを指定することにより、
.I SuperProbe
プログラムにそれらのポートを使用するビデオカードが存在しないことを教え、
それらのポートに対する探査 (これを実行するとハードウェアが混乱する) を
させないようにできる。除外リストはコンマで区切られた I/O ポートまたは
ポート範囲のリストとして指定する。ポート範囲は "下限-上限" として指定する。
指定された両端のアドレスの間にあるポートはすべて除外される。
ポートアドレスは 10進数、 8進数 ( '0' で始まる数値)、または 16進数 ( '0x' で始まる数値) のいずれかにより指定可能である。
.TP 8
.B "-mask10"
.\"0 This option is used in combination with
.\"0 .I -excl.
.\"0 It tells
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 that when comparing an I/O port under test against the exclusion list, the
.\"0 port address should be masked to 10 bits.  This is important with older
.\"0 8-bit cards that only do 10 bit decoding, and for some cheap 16-bit cards
.\"0 as well.  This option is simply a less-drastic form of the
.\"0 .I -no16
.\"0 option.
このオプションは
.I -excl
オプションと組み合わせて使用する。
このオプションを指定すると、
.I SuperProbe
プログラムが I/O ポートを除外リストに指定されたものと比較する際、
ポートアドレスを 10 ビットにマスクする。このオプションはアドレスを 10 ビットとしてのみ解釈するような、古い 8 ビットカードおよびいくつかの
安価な 16 ビットカードに対して有効である。このオプションは単純に
.I -no16
オプションの機能を限定したものである。
.TP 8
.BI "-order" "\ list"
.\"0 This option specifies which chipsets
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 should test, and in which order.  The
.\"0 .I list
.\"0 parameter is a comma-separated list of chipset names.  This list overrides
.\"0 the built-in default testing order.  To find the list of acceptable names,
.\"0 use the
.\"0 .I -info
.\"0 option described below.  Note that items displayed as "Standard video
.\"0 hardware" are not usable with the
.\"0 .I -order
.\"0 option.
このオプションは
.I SuperProbe
プログラムが調査の対象とするチップセットの種類とその順番を指定する。
.I list
パラメータはコンマで区切られたチップセット名からなるリストである。
このリストによる指定は、プログラムに内蔵されたデフォルトの設定に
優先する。後で説明する
.I -info
オプションにより、このオプションで指定可能なチップ名のリストを見る
ことができる。ただし、 "Standard video hardware" として表示される
項目は
.I -order
オプションのパラメータとしては使えないので注意すること。
.TP 8
.BI "-noprobe" "\ list"
.\"0 This options specifies which chipsets
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 should
.\"0 .B not
.\"0 test.  The order of testing will either be the default order, or that
.\"0 specified with the
.\"0 .I -order
.\"0 option described above.  The
.\"0 .I list
.\"0 parameter is a comma-separated list of chipset names.  To find the list
.\"0 of acceptable names, use the
.\"0 .I -info
.\"0 option described below.  Note that items displayed as "Standard video
.\"0 hardware" are not usable with the
.\"0 .I -noprobe
.\"0 option.
このオプションは
.I SuperProbe
プログラムが調査対象と
.B しない
チップセットの種類を指定する。調査の順番はデフォルトの設定か、または先に
説明した
.I -order
オプションによる指定に従う。
.I list
パラメータはコンマで区切られたチップセット名からなるリストである。
後で説明する
.I -info
オプションにより、このオプションで指定可能なチップ名のリストを見る
ことができる。ただし、 "Standard video hardware" として表示される
項目は
.I -noprobe
オプションのパラメータとしては使えないので注意すること。
.TP 8
.BI "-bios" "\ base"
.\"0 This option specifies the base address for the graphics-hardware BIOS.
.\"0 By default,
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 will attempt to locate the BIOS base on its own (the normal address is
.\"0 0xC0000).  If it fails to correctly locate the BIOS (an error message will
.\"0 be printed if this occurs), the
.\"0 .I -bios
.\"0 option can be used to specify the base.
このオプションはグラフィック・ハードウェアの BIOS ベースアドレスを指定する。
デフォルトでは
.I SuperProbe
プログラムが自分自身で BIOS ベースアドレスを見つけようとする (通常のアドレスは 0xC0000 である)。プログラムが BIOS の位置を正しく見つけられない場合 (この時
エラーメッセージが表示される。) ベースアドレスを指定するために、この
.I -bios
オプションを使用することができる。
.TP 8
.B "-no_bios"
.\"0 Disallow reading of the video BIOS and assume that an EGA or later 
.\"0 (VGA, SVGA) board is present as the primary video hardware.  
ビデオ BIOS の読み取りを禁止し、主要なビデオハードウェアとして EGA または (VGA, SVGA などの) それ以降のボードが存在するものとして処理を実行する。
.TP 8
.B "-no_dac"
.\"0 Skip probing for the RAMDAC type when an (S)VGA is identified.
(S)VGA ボードが認識された場合に RAMDAC の検出をしない。
.TP 8
.B "-no_mem"
.\"0 Skip probing for the amount of installed video memory.
インストールされているビデオメモリーの量を検出しない。
.TP 8
.B "-info"
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 will print out a listing of all the video hardware that it knows how to
.\"0 identify.
.I SuperProbe
プログラムは検出可能なすべての種類のビデオハードウェアのリストを表示する。
.SH 例
.PP
.\"0 To run 
.\"0 .I SuperProbe 
.\"0 in its most basic and automated form, simply enter:
.\"0 .sp
.\"0 .ce
.\"0 .B SuperProbe
.I SuperProbe
プログラムの自動認識機能を最大限利用するための最も基本的な実行方法は、
単に以下のコマンドを入力することである：
.sp
.ce
.B SuperProbe
.PP
.\"0 Note - you may want to redirect 
.\"0 .I stdout
.\"0 to a file when you run
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 (especially if your OS does not support Virtual Terminals on the console).
注意 -
.I SuperProbe
プログラムを実行する際には (特にコンソール上の仮想端末機能をサポートして
いない OS を使っている場合)、
.I 標準出力
をファイルにリダイレクトすると良い。 
.PP
.\"0 However, if you have any 8-bit cards installed, you should initially run
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 as:
.\"0 .sp
.\"0 .ce
.\"0 .B SuperProbe -verbose -no16
ただし、 8 ビットのカードがインストールされている場合には最初に
.I SuperProbe
プログラムに以下のオプションを指定して実行すると良い：
.sp
.ce
.B SuperProbe -verbose -no16
.PP
.\"0 (the
.\"0 .I -verbose
.\"0 option is included so you can see what
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 is skipping).
(ここで
.I -verbose
オプションを指定しているのは
.I SuperProbe
プログラムがスキップした処理を確認するためである。)
.PP
.\"0 Finer granularity can be obtained with an exclusion list, for example:
.\"0 .sp
.\"0 .ce
.\"0 .B SuperProbe -verbose -excl 0x200,0x220-0x230,0x250
次の例のように除外リストを使用することによって、検出範囲をさらに絞ることが
可能である：
.sp
.ce
.B SuperProbe -verbose -excl 0x200,0x220-0x230,0x250
.PP
.\"0 which will not test for any device that use port 0x200, ports 0x220 through
.\"0 0x230, inclusive, or port 0x250.  If you have any 8-bit cards installed,
.\"0 you should add
.\"0 .I -mask10
.\"0 to the list of options.
これらのオプションを指定した場合、 0x200、0x220 から 0x230 までの範囲の
いずれか、または 0x250 をアドレスにもつポートを使うデバイスに対しては
検出を行なわない。なお 8 ビットのカードがインストールされている場合には、
.I -mask10
を上記のオプションに追加すると良い。
.PP
.\"0 To restrict the search to Western Digital, Tseng, and Cirrus chipset,
.\"0 run
.\"0 .I SuperProbe
.\"0 as follows:
.\"0 .sp
.\"0 .ce
.\"0 .B SuperProbe -order WD,Tseng,Cirrus
検出するチップセットの種類を Western Digital、 Tseng、 および Cirrus に
制限するには、
.I SuperProbe
プログラムに次のオプションを指定する：
.sp
.ce
.B SuperProbe -order WD,Tsend,Cirrus
.SH バグ
.PP
.\"0 Probably a lot at this point.  Please report any bugs or incorrect
.\"0 identifications to the author.
おそらく現時点ではたくさんのバグが存在しているものと思われる。
検出結果が実際のハードウェア構成と異なる場合やプログラムのバグに気がついた
場合は、すべて開発者に報告して欲しい。
.PP
.\"0 \fBIt is possible that SuperProbe can lock up your machine.  Be sure to
.\"0 narrow the search by using the \fI-no16\fB, \fI-excl\fB, and \fI-mask10\fB
.\"0 options provided to keep SuperProbe from conflicting with other installed
.\"0 hardware.\fR
\fB SuperProbe プログラムの実行によりマシンがロックアップしてしまう場合が
ある。このような場合には SuperProbe プログラムをシステムにインストールされて
いる別のハードウェアと衝突させないために用意されている \fI-no16\fB、\fI-excl\fB、 \fI-mask10\fB などのオプションを使用して検出範囲を絞るよう
注意すること。 \fR
.SH 関連項目
.PP
.\"0 The
.\"0 .I vgadoc3.zip
.\"0 documentation package by Finn Thoegersen, available in the MS-DOS archives
.\"0 of many FTP repositories.
.I vgadoc3.zip
: Finn Thoegersen による資料集であり、多くの FTP サイト上の MS-DOS アーカイブ
中に存在する。
.PP
.\"0 \fIProgrammer's Guide to the EGA and VGA Cards, 2nd Ed\fP, by Richard
.\"0 Ferraro.
\fIProgrammer's Guide to the EGA and VGA Cards, 2nd Ed\fP
: Richard Ferraro 著。
.SH 著者
.\"0 David E. Wexelblat <dwex@xfree86.org>
.\"0 .br
.\"0 with help from David Dawes <dawes@xfree86.org> and the XFree86 
.\"0 development team.
このソフトウェアは David Dawes <dawes@xfree86.org> およびその他の XFree86
開発チームのメンバによる援助を受けて
.br
David E. Wexelblat <dwex@xfree86.org>
が開発した。
.\" $TOG: SuperProbe.man /main/7 1997/07/19 09:20:52 kaleb $
