.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/doc/Japanese/man/xf86config.1x,v 1.1.2.2 1999/11/26 15:23:34 hohndel Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, dis-
.\" tribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
.\" persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the fol-
.\" lowing conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABIL-
.\" ITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT
.\" SHALL  THE X JAPANESE DOCUMENTATION PROJECT  BE  LIABLE  FOR  ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,  TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM,  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The X Japanese
.\" Documentation Project shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to
.\" promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior
.\" written authorization from The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\"
.\" Translated Mon Nov  2 21:25:14 JST 1998
.\"         by FUJIWARA Teruyoshi <fujiwara@linux.or.jp>
.\"
.TH xf86config 1 "Version 3.3.5" "XFree86"
.SH 名前
.\"0 xf86config \- generate an XF86Config file
xf86config \- XF86Config ファイルを作成する
.SH 書式
.B xf86config
.SH 説明
.\"0 \fIxf86config\fP is an interactive program for generating an XF86Config file
.\"0 for use with XFree86 X servers.
\fIxf86config\fP は、
XFree86 の X サーバで使用する XF86Config ファイルを対話的に生成するプ
ログラムである。
.SH ファイル
.\"0 <xroot>/lib/X11/Cards            Video cards database
<xroot>/lib/X11/Cards            ビデオカードデータベース
.SH 関連項目
XFree86(1), XF86Config(4/5), reconfig(1)
.SH 著者
.\"0 Harm Hanemaayer.
Harm Hanemaayer
.\" $XConsortium: xf86conf.man /main/8 1996/12/09 17:38:03 kaleb $
