.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/doc/Japanese/man/XF86_VGA16.1x,v 1.1.2.2 1999/11/26 15:23:34 hohndel Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, dis-
.\" tribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
.\" persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the fol-
.\" lowing conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABIL-
.\" ITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT
.\" SHALL  THE X JAPANESE DOCUMENTATION PROJECT  BE  LIABLE  FOR  ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,  TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM,  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The X Japanese
.\" Documentation Project shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to
.\" promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior
.\" written authorization from The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\"
.\" Translated Mon Nov 16 22:13:03 JST 1998
.\"         by FUJIWARA Teruyoshi <fujiwara@linux.or.jp>
.\"
.TH XF86_VGA16 1 "Version 3.3.5"  "XFree86"
.SH 名前
.\"0 XF86_VGA16 - 4 bit non-accelerated X Window System server for UNIX on
.\"0 x86 platforms
XF86_VGA16 - x86 プラットフォーム上で動作する、4 ビット・アクセラレーションなしの X サーバ
.SH 書式
.B XF86_VGA16
[:displaynumber] [ option ] ...
.SH 説明
.\"0 .I XF86_VGA16
.\"0 is a 4-bit color server for VGA cards.  The default root visual for this
.\"0 server is StaticColor.  It also includes support for
.\"0 the non-VGA monochrome cards described in the \fIXF86_Mono(1)\fP manual
.\"0 page.  It may be run in a dual-headed configuration.
.I XF86_VGA16
は VGA カード用の 4 ビットカラーの X サーバである。このサーバのデフォ
ルトのルートウィンドウのビジュアルは StaticColor である。このサーバは
オンラインマニュアルの \fIXF86_Mono(1)\fP で説明されている非 VGA のモ
ノクロのカードもサポートしている。このサーバは二本立ての設定で実行する
ことができる。
.PP
.SH 設定
.PP
.\"0 The
.\"0 .I XF86_VGA16
.\"0 server supports the following popular SVGA chipsets in 16-colour mode.
.I XF86_VGA16
サーバは、次の普及している SVGA チップセットの 16色モードをサポートし
ている。
.RS .5i
.TP 4
ATI:
.\"0 18800, 18800-1, 28800-2, 28800-4, 28800-5, 28800-6, 68800-3, 68800-6, 68800AX,
.\"0 68800LX, 88800GX-C, 88800GX-D, 88800GX-E, 88800GX-F, 88800CX, 264CT, 264ET,
.\"0 264VT, 264GT (a.k.a. 3D Rage), 264VT-B, 264VT3, 264VT4, 264GT-B (a.k.a. 3D Rage
.\"0 II), 264GT-IIc, 264GT3 (a.k.a. 3D Rage Pro), 264LT, 264LT-Pro
18800, 18800-1, 28800-2, 28800-4, 28800-5, 28800-6, 68800-3, 68800-6, 68800AX,
68800LX, 88800GX-C, 88800GX-D, 88800GX-E, 88800GX-F, 88800CX, 264CT, 264ET,
264VT, 264GT (別名 3D Rage), 264VT-B, 264VT3, 264VT4, 264GT-B (別名. 3D Rage
II), 264GT-IIc, 264GT3 (別名 3D Rage Pro), 264LT, 264LT-Pro
.TP 4
Tseng:
ET4000
.TP 4
Trident:
TVGA8800CS, TVGA8900B, TVGA8900C, TVGA8900CL, TVGA9000
.TP 4
Cirrus:
CL6410, CL6412, CL6420, CL6440
.TP 4
Oak:
OTI067, OTI077, OTI087
.RE
.PP
.\"0 Additionally it
.\"0 supports generic VGA cards.
これらに加えて、一般的な VGA カードがサポートされている。
.PP
.\"0 .I XF86_VGA16
.\"0 does not support the accelerated functions of the supported chipsets.
.I XF86_VGA16
は、サポートしているチップセットに対してもアクセラレーション機能はサポー
トしていない。
.SH オプション
.\"0 In addition to the normal server options described in the \fIXserver(1)\fP
.\"0 manual page, \fIXF86_VGA16\fP accepts some more command line switches,
.\"0 as described in the 
.\"0 .I XFree86(1) 
.\"0 manpage.
オンラインマニュアル \fIXserver(1)\fP で説明されている通常のサーバオプ
ション以外にも、\fIXF86_VGA16\fP には
.I XFree86(1)
のオンラインマニュアルで説明されているコマンドラインオプションを指定す
ることができる。
.SH セットアップ
.\"0 .I XFree86
.\"0 uses a configuration file called \fBXF86Config\fP for its initial setup.  
.I XFree86
は起動のために
\fBXF86Config\fP
という設定ファイルを使用する。
.\"0 See the 
.\"0 .I XF86Config(4/5) 
.\"0 manpage for general details. Here only the
.\"0 .I XF86_VGA16
.\"0 specific parts are explained.
一般的な事項に関する詳しい説明については、オンラインマニュアルの
.I XF86Config(4/5) 
のオンラインマニュアルを参照すること。ここでは
.I XF86_VGA16
特有の部分だけを説明する。
.PP
.\"0 The \fBDriver\fP entry in the \fBScreen\fP section of the XF86Config file
.\"0 should be set to \fBvga16\fP.  To run in dual-headed configuration, there
.\"0 should also be a \fBScreen\fP section with the \fBDriver\fP entry set to
.\"0 \fBmono\fP.
XF86Config ファイルの \fBScreen\fP セクションの \fBDriver\fP エントリ
には、\fBvga16\fP を設定しなければならない。二本立ての設定で起動するに
は、\fBScreen\fP セクションの \fBDriver\fP エントリには \fBmono\fP 
も設定しなければならない。
.PP
.\"0 Entries for the \fBDevice\fP section in the XF86Config file include:
XF86Config ファイルの \fBDevice\fP セクションのエントリには以下の設
定を行う:
.br
.ne 3i
.TP 8
.B chipset \fI"name"\fP
.\"0 specifies a chipset so the correct driver can be used.  Possible chipsets
.\"0 are:
正しいドライバを使うためにチップセットを指定する。指定可能なチップセッ
トを以下に述べる:
.sp
.RS 1.5i
.TP 4
ATI:
.\"0 ati (see README.ati for additional recoginzed names)
ati (認識される他の名前については README.ati を参照すること)
.TP 4
Tseng:
et4000, et4000w32, et4000w32i, et4000w32p
.TP 4
Trident:
tvga8800cs, tvga8900b, tvga8900c, tvga8900cl, tvga9000
.TP 4
Cirrus:
cl6410, cl6412, cl6420, cl6440
.TP 4
Oak:
oti067, oti077, oti087
.TP 4
Generic VGA:
generic 
.RE
.TP 8
.B Option \fI"optionstring"\fP
.\"0 allows the user to select certain options provided by the drivers.  Currently 
.\"0 the following strings are recognized:
ユーザはドライバに与えるオプションを選択することができる。現在は以下の
文字列が認識される:
.sp
.\"0 \fBlegend\fP - for Sigma Legend ET4000-based boards.  This option enables
.\"0 a special clock-selection algorithm used on Legend boards, and MUST be
.\"0 specified for these boards to function correctly.
\fBlegend\fP - Sigma Legend 製の ET4000 ベースのボードに対して使用する。
このオプションは、Legend のボードで使われている特別なクロック選択アル
ゴリズムを有効にするもので、これらのボードを正しく機能させるためには指
定しなければならないオプションである。
.ig
.sp
.\"0 \fBswap_hibit\fP - for Western Digital/PVGA1 chipsets.  Some Western Digital
.\"0 based boards require the high-order clock-select lead to be inverted.  It
.\"0 is not possible for the server to determine this information at run-time.
\fBswap_hibit\fP - Western Digital/PVGA1 チップセットに対して使用する。
Western Digital ベースのボードには、反転が起きる高次のクロック選択を必
要とするものもある。これはこの情報を実行時に決定するサーバに対しては使
用できない。
.\"0 If the 9th clock in the list of clocks detected by the server is less than
.\"0 30Mhz, this option likely needs to be set.
サーバが見つけたクロックのリストの9番目のクロックが 30MHz より小さい場
合、このオプションをセットする必要があるだろう。
..
.sp
.\"0 \fBhibit_low\fP, \fBhibit_high\fP - for Tseng ET4000 chipsets.  With
.\"0 some ET4000 cards, the server has difficulty getting the state of the
.\"0 high-order clocks select bit right when started from a high-resolution text
.\"0 mode.  These options allow the correct initial state of that bit to be
.\"0 specified.  To find out what the correct initial state is, start the server
.\"0 from an 80x25 text mode.  This option is only needed if the clocks reported
.\"0 by the server when started from a high-resolution text mode differ from
.\"0 those reported when it is started from an 80x25 text mode.
\fBhibit_low\fP, \fBhibit_high\fP - Tseng 製の ET4000 チップセットに対
して使用する。ET4000 カードの一部では、高解像度のテキストモードから X 
サーバを起動すると、高次のクロック選択ビットの状態を正しく取得できない。
このオプションを使うと、そのビットに正しい初期状態を指定することができ
る。正しい初期状態を見つけるためには、80x25 のテキストモードからサーバ
を起動すること。このオプションは、高解像度のテキストモードから起動した
ときと、80x25 のテキストモードで起動したときでサーバが通知するクロック
が異なる場合にのみ必要となる。
.sp
.\"0 \fBclkdiv2\fP - for all chipsets using a set of discrete clocks (i.e. not
.\"0 using a programmable ClockChip or a ClockProg). With this option enabled,
.\"0 the VGA driver can also use all the clocks mentionned in the clocks line
.\"0 divided by 2, presenting the server with twice as many clocks to choose
.\"0 from, especially in the low- and mid-range. This is useful for creating very
.\"0 low resolution modes like 320x200, because the lowest available clock on
.\"0 many cards (25.175 MHz) is too high to create a standard 320x200 mode. A few
.\"0 VGA chips don't support this option, causing a distorted screen.
\fBclkdiv2\fP - 使用するクロックの値が跳び跳びである全てのチップセット
に対して用いる(つまり、プログラマブル ClockChip や ClockProg を使わな
い場合)。このオプションを有効にすると、VGA ドライバは clocks 行に記述
された全てのクロックを2で割ったもの使用することができる。これにより、
特に高い範囲と中くらいの範囲でサーバが選択できるクロック数は2倍になる。
このオプションは、320x200 のようなとても低い解像度のモードを作成する際
に便利である。なぜなら、多くのカードの最低クロック(25.175 MHz)は 
320x200 モードを作るには高すぎるからである。一部の VGA チップではこの
オプションはサポートされておらず、そのような場合にはスクリーンが歪んで
しまう。
.ig
.sp
.\"0 \fB8clocks\fP - for the PVGA1 chipset the default is 4 clocks.  Some
.\"0 cards with this chipset may support 8 clocks.  Specifying this option
.\"0 will allow the driver to detect and use the extra clocks.
\fB8clocks\fP - デフォルトで4クロックである PGVA1 チップセットで用いる。
このチップセットを使っているカードには8つのクロックをサポートしている
ものもある。このオプションを指定すると、追加のクロックを検出・利用でき
るようになる。
.sp
.\"0 \fB16clocks\fP - for Trident TVGA8900B and 8900C chipsets.  Some newer boards
.\"0 using 8900B and 8900C chipsets actually support 16 clocks rather than the
.\"0 standard 8 clocks.  Such boards will have a "TCK9002" or "TCK9004" chip
.\"0 on them.  Specifying this option will allow the driver to detect and use
.\"0 the extra 8 clocks.
\fB16clocks\fP - Trident 製の TVGA8900B および 8900C チップセットで使
用する。8900B および 8900C チップセットを使っている新しいボードでは、
実際には 8 クロックでなく 16 クロックをサポートしていることがある。こ
のようなボードには "TCK9002" または "TCK9004" チップが載っている。この
オプションを指定すると、ドライバが追加の 8 クロックを検出・利用できる
ようになる。
..
.sp
.\"0 \fBpower_saver\fP - This option enables the server
.\"0 to use the power saving features of VESA DPMS compatible monitors.
\fBpower_saver\fP - このオプションは、VESA の DPMS 互換モニタの省電力
機能を有効にする。
.\"0 The suspend level is currently not supported.
現在はサスペンドレベルはサポートされていない。
.\"0 Refer to the \fIXF86Config(4/5)\fP
.\"0 manual page for details of how to set the timeouts for the different levels
.\"0 of operation.  This option is experimental.
異なるレベルの操作でのタイムアウト値の設定方法については、オンラインマ
ニュアルの \fIXF86Config(4/5)\fP を参照すること。このオプションは実験
的なものである。
.ig
.\"0 intern_disp (use internal display for laptops -- WD90C2x)
.\"0 extern_disp (use external display for laptops -- WD90C2x)
intern_disp (ノート型マシンで内蔵ディスプレイを使う -- WD90C2x)
extern_disp (ノート型マシンで外付けディスプレイを使う -- WD90C2x)
..
.PP
.\"0 Note that \fIXFree86\fP has some internal capabilities to determine
.\"0 what hardware
.\"0 it is running on. Thus normally the keywords \fIchipset\fP, \fIclocks\fP,
.\"0 and \fIvideoram\fP don't have to be specified.  But there
.\"0 may be occasions when this autodetection mechanism fails, (for example, too
.\"0 high of load on the machine when you start the server).  For cases like this,
.\"0 one should first run \fIXF86_VGA16\fP on an unloaded machine, look at the
.\"0 results of the autodetection (that are printed out during server startup)
.\"0 and then explicitly specify these parameters in the configuration file.
\fIXFree86\fP には、X サーバがどのハードウェア上で動作しているか調べる
ための内部機能がある点に注意すること。そのため、通常は \fIchipset\fP,
\fIclocks\fP, \fIvideoram\fP などのオプションを指定する必要はない。し
かし、自動検出機能がうまく動かない場合もある(例えば、サーバを起動した
ときのマシンの負荷が高すぎる場合)。このような場合には、負荷の低い状態
で \fIXF86_VGA16\fP  を予め起動しておき、自動検出の結果(サーバの起動時
に出力される)を調べ、このパラメータを明示的に設定ファイルで指定すれば
よい。
.\"0 \fBIt is recommended that all parameters, especially Clock values,
.\"0 be specified in the XF86Config file.\fP
\fBXF86Config には全てのパラメータ(特に Clock 値)を指定することが望ましい。\fP
.SH ファイル
.TP 30
<XRoot>/bin/XF86_VGA16
.\"0 The 16 colour X server
16 色の X サーバ
.TP 30
/etc/XF86Config
.\"0 Server configuration file
サーバの設定ファイル
.TP 30
<XRoot>/lib/X11/XF86Config
.\"0 Server configuration file
サーバの設定ファイル
.LP
.\"0 Note: <XRoot> refers to the root of the X11 install tree.
注: <XRoot> は X11 のインストールツリーのルートディレクトリを指す。
.SH 関連項目
X(1), Xserver(1), XFree86(1), XF86Config(4/5), XF86_Mono(1), xf86config(1),
xvidtune(1), xdm(1), xinit(1)
.SH 連絡先
.\"0 \fIXFree86\fP source is available from the FTP server
.\"0 \fIftp.XFree86.org\fP.  Send email to
.\"0 \fIXFree86@XFree86.org\fP for details.
\fIXFree86\fP のソースは FTP サーバ \fIftp.XFree86.org\fP で入手可能で
ある。詳しくは、\fIXFree86@XFree86.org\fP にメールを送ること。
.SH 著者
.PP
.\"0 The primary developer of this server is
.\"0 Gertjan Akkerman,  \fIakkerman@dutiba.twi.tudelft.nl\fP
.PP
このサーバの中心的な開発者は
Gertjan Akkerman,  \fIakkerman@dutiba.twi.tudelft.nl\fP
である。
.PP
.\"0 See also the
.\"0 .I XFree86(1)
.\"0 manual page.
オンラインマニュアル
.I XFree86(1)
も参照すること。
.\" $XConsortium: XF86_VGA16.man /main/14 1996/12/09 17:33:18 kaleb $
