.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/doc/Japanese/man/XF86_Mono.1x,v 1.1.2.2 1999/11/26 15:23:33 hohndel Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, dis-
.\" tribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
.\" persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the fol-
.\" lowing conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABIL-
.\" ITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT
.\" SHALL  THE X JAPANESE DOCUMENTATION PROJECT  BE  LIABLE  FOR  ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,  TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM,  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The X Japanese
.\" Documentation Project shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to
.\" promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior
.\" written authorization from The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\"
.\" Translated Wed Nov 18 23:01:47 JST 1998
.\"         by FUJIWARA Teruyoshi <fujiwara@linux.or.jp>
.\"
.TH XF86_Mono 1 "Version 3.3.5"  "XFree86"
.SH 名前
.\"0 XF86_Mono - 1 bit non-accelerated X Window System servers for UNIX on
x86 platforms
XF86_Mono - x86 プラットフォームの UNIX 用の、1ビットアクセラレーション無しの X サーバ
.SH 書式
.B XF86_Mono
[:displaynumber] [ option ] ...
.SH 説明
.\"0 .I XF86_Mono
.\"0 is a 1-bit StaticGrey server for VGA and Super-VGA cards and for some other
.\"0 monochrome cards.
.I XF86_Mono
は、VGA, Super-VGA, その他のモノクロのカード用の 1 ビット StaticGrey
のサーバである。
.SH 設定
.PP
.\"0 The
.\"0 .I XF86_Mono
.\"0 server supports the following popular SuperVGA chipsets in monochrome mode:
.I XF86_Mono
は以下の普及している SuperVGA チップセットのモノクロモードをサポートし
ている:
.RS .5i
.TP 4
ATI:
18800, 18800-1, 28800-2, 28800-4, 28800-5, 28800-6, 68800-3, 68800-6, 68800AX,
68800LX, 88800GX-C, 88800GX-D, 88800GX-E, 88800GX-F, 88800CX, 264CT, 264ET,
.\"0 264VT, 264GT (a.k.a. 3D Rage), 264VT-B, 264VT3, 264VT4, 264GT-B (a.k.a. 3D Rage
.\"0 II), 264GT-IIc, 264GT3 (a.k.a. 3D Rage Pro), 264LT, 264LT-Pro
264VT, 264GT (a.k.a. 3D Rage), 264VT-B, 264VT3, 264VT4, 264GT-B (別名 3D Rage
II), 264GT-IIc, 264GT3 (別名 3D Rage Pro), 264LT, 264LT-Pro
.TP 4
Tseng:
ET3000, ET4000, ET4000/W32
.TP 4
Western Digital:
PVGA1, WD90C00, WD90C10, WD90C11, WD90C30, WD90C31, WD90C33
.TP 4
Genoa:
GVGA
.TP 4
Trident:
TVGA8800CS, TVGA8900B, TVGA8900C, TVGA8900CL, TVGA9000
.TP 4
NCR:
77C22, 77C22E
.TP 4
Compaq:
AVGA
.TP 4
Oak:
OTI067, OTI077, OTI087
.TP 4
Cirrus:
CLGD5420, CLGD5422, CLGD5424, CLGD5426, CLGD5428, CLGD5429, CLGD5430,
CLGD5434, CLGD5436, CLGD6205, CLGD6215, CLGD6225, CLGD6235,
CL6410, CL6412, CL6420, CL6440
.RE
.PP
.\"0 The
.\"0 .I XF86_Mono
.\"0 server supports the following monochrome cards and resolutions:
.I XF86_Mono
サーバは次のモノクロカードと解像度をサポートしている:
.RS .5i
.TP 4
Sigma:
.\"0 L-View, LaserView PLUS (in 1bpp mode): 1664x1280
L-View, LaserView PLUS (1bpp モード): 1664x1280
.TP 4
Hyundai:
HGC-1280: 1280[1472]x1024
.TP 4
Apollo:
.\"0 Monochrome card (with ID 9) from Apollo workstations: 1280x1024
Apollo ワークステーションのモノクロのカード(ID 9 を持つ): 1280x1024
.TP 4
.\"0 Hercules and compatibles cards: 720x348
Hercules および互換カード: 720x348
.RE
.PP
.\"0 Additionally it supports generic VGA cards with a maximum virtual resolution
.\"0 of (approximately) 800x650.
さらに、このサーバは一般的な VGA カードで、最大サイズが(だいたい)
800x650 の仮想的な解像度をサポートしている。
.PP
.\"0 On supported SVGA chipsets, 
.\"0 .I XF86_Mono
.\"0 will use up to 1/4 of display memory, which yields a maximum virtual
.\"0 resolution of (approximately) 1664x1260 with 1MB of display memory.
サポートされている SVGA サーバでは、
.I XF86_Mono
はディスプレイメモリの 1/4 までしか使用しないので、1MB のディスプレイ
メモリを積んでいる場合には、仮想スクリーンの最大サイズは(だいたい)
1664x1260 となる。
.\"0 .I XF86_Mono
.\"0 does not support the accelerated functions of the supported chipsets.
.I XF86_Mono
がサポートしているチップセットについても、アクセラレーション機能はサポー
トされていない。
.SH オプション
.\"0 In addition to the normal server options described in the \fIXserver(1)\fP
.\"0 manual page, \fIXF86_Mono\fP accepts some more
.\"0 command line switches, as described in the 
.\"0 .I XFree86(1) 
.\"0 manpage.
\fIXF86_Mono\fP は、オンラインマニュアルの \fIXserver(1)\fP で説明され
ている通常のサーバオプション以外にも、いくつかのコマンドラインオプショ
ンをサポートしている。通常のオプションは、オンラインマニュアルの
.I XFree86(1)
で説明されている。
.SH セットアップ
.\"0 .I XFree86
.\"0 uses a configuration file called \fBXF86Config\fP for its initial setup.  
.I XFree86
は起動時に \fBXF86Config\fP という設定ファイルを使用する。
.\"0 See the 
.\"0 .I XF86Config(4/5) 
.\"0 manpage for general details. Here only the
.\"0 .I XF86_Mono
.\"0 specific parts are explained.
一般的な事項に関する詳しい説明については、オンラインマニュアルの
.I XF86Config(4/5) 
を参照すること。ここでは、
.I XF86_Mono
固有の部分についてのみ説明する。
.PP
.\"0 The \fBDriver\fP entry in \fBScreen\fP section of the XF86Config file should
.\"0 be set to \fBvga2\fP for VGA and SVGA boards, and \fBmono\fP for non-vga
.\"0 mono boards.  If \fBScreen\fP sections are present for both of these, the
.\"0 server will start in a dual-headed configuration.
XF86Config ファイルの \fBScreen\fP セクションの \fBDriver\fP エントリ
には、VGA と SVGA ボードの場合には \fBvga2\fP を、非VGAのモノクロボー
ドの場合には \fBmono\fP を指定する必要がある。\fBScreen\fP セクション
にこれらが両方ある場合には、サーバはどちらも利用できる設定で起動する。
.PP
.\"0 Entries for the \fBDevice\fP section in the XF86Config file include:
XF86Config ファイルの \fBDevice\fP セクションのエントリには次のよう
なものがある:
.br
.ne 3i
.TP 8
.B chipset \fI"name"\fP
.\"0 specifies a chipset so the correct driver can be used.  Possible chipsets
.\"0 are:
正しいドライバを使うためにチップセットを指定する。指定可能な値を以下に
示す:
.sp
VGA2:
.RS 1.5i
.TP 4
ATI:
.\"0 ati (see README.ati for other recognized names)
ati (認識できる他の名前については README.ati を参照すること)
.TP 4
Tseng:
et3000, et4000, et4000w32, et4000w32i, et4000w32p
.TP 4
Western Digital:
pvga1, wd90c00, wd90c10, wd90c30, wd90c31, wd90c33
.TP 4
Genoa:
gvga
.TP 4
Trident:
tvga8800cs, tvga8900b, tvga8900c, tvga8900cl, tvga9000 
.TP 4
NCR:
ncr77c22, ncr77c22e
.TP 4
Compaq:
cpq_avga
.TP 4
OAK:
oti067, oti077, oti087
.TP 4
Cirrus:
clgd5420, clgd5422, clgd5424, clgd5426, clgd5428, clgd5429, clgd5430,
clgd5434, clgd5436, clgd6205, clgd6215, clgd6225, clgd6235,
cl6410, cl6412, cl6420, cl6440
.TP 4
Generic VGA:
generic 
.RE
.RS 8
.PP
MONO:
.RE
.RS 1.5i
.TP 4
Hyundai:
hgc1280
.TP 4
Sigma:
sigmalview
.TP 4
Apollo:
apollo9
.TP 4
Hercules:
hercules
.RE
.TP 8
.B MemBase \fImemaddress\fP
.\"0 specifies the base address of the video memory.  This option is only used
.\"0 for the Sigma LaserView cards.  Valid addresses for these cards are
.\"0 \fI0xA0000\fP, \fI0xB0000\fP, \fI0xC0000\fP, \fI0xD0000\fP, \fI0xE0000\fP.
ビデオメモリのベースアドレスを指定する。このオプションは Sigma 製の
LaserView ボードだけで使われる。これらのカードにおける有効な値は、
\fI0xA0000\fP, \fI0xB0000\fP, \fI0xC0000\fP, \fI0xD0000\fP,
\fI0xE0000\fP である。
.\"0 The default is \fI0xE0000\fP.
デフォルト値は \fI0xE0000\fP である。
.TP 8
.B Black \fIred green blue\fP
.\"0 sets the ``black'' colour to the rgb values specified.  These values must be
.\"0 given as integers in the range 0\-63.  The default is \fI0\ 0\ 0\fP.  This
.\"0 option is only valid for the \fBvga2\fP screen type.
「黒」の色に指定した RGB 値をセットする。これらの値は 0\-63 の範囲の整
数でなければならない。デフォルト値は \fI0\ 0\ 0\fP である。このオプショ
ンは、スクリーンのタイプが \fBvga2\fP の場合しか有効でない。
.TP 8
.B White \fIred green blue\fP
.\"0 sets the ``white'' colour to the rgb values specified.  These values must be
.\"0 given as integers in the range 0\-63.  The default is \fI63\ 63\ 63\fP.  This
.\"0 option is only valid for the \fBvga2\fP screen type.
「白」の色に指定した RGB 値をセットする。これらの値は 0\-63 の範囲の整
数でなければならない。デフォルト値は \fI63\ 63\ 63\fP である。このオプショ
ンは、スクリーンのタイプが \fBvga2\fP の場合しか有効でない。
.TP 8
.B Option \fI"optionstring"\fP
.\"0 allows the user to select certain options provided by the drivers.  Currently 
.\"0 the following strings are recognized:
このオプションを使って、ドライバ固有のオプションを指定することができる。
現在は以下の文字列が認識される:
.sp
.\"0 \fBlegend\fP - for Sigma Legend ET4000-based boards.  This option enables
.\"0 a special clock-selection algorithm used on Legend boards, and MUST be
.\"0 specified for these boards to function correctly.
\fBlegend\fP - Signam Legend 製の ET4000 ベースのボードに対して用いる。
このオプションは、Legend のボードで使われている特別なクロック選択アル
ゴリズムを有効にするもので、これらのボードを正しく機能させるためには指
定しなければならないオプションである。
.sp
.\"0 \fBswap_hibit\fP - for Western Digital/PVGA1 chipsets.  Some Western Digital
.\"0 based boards require the high-order clock-select lead to be inverted.  It
.\"0 is not possible for the server to determine this information at run-time.
\fBswap_hibit\fP - Western Digital/PVGA1 で使用する。Western Digital
ベースのカードには、反転させるために高次のクロック選択を必要とするもの
がある。サーバがこの情報を実行時に決定することはできない。
.\"0 If the 9th clock in the list of clocks detected by the server is less than
.\"0 30Mhz, this option likely needs to be set.
サーバが検出したクロックのリストの 9番目のクロックが 30MHz より小さい
場合には、このオプションをセットする必要があるだろう。
.sp
.\"0 \fBhibit_low\fP, \fBhibit_high\fP - for Tseng ET4000 chipsets.  With
.\"0 some ET4000 cards, the server has difficulty getting the state of the
.\"0 high-order clocks select bit right when started from a high-resolution text
.\"0 mode.  These options allow the correct initial state of that bit to be
.\"0 specified.  To find out what the correct initial state is, start the server
.\"0 from an 80x25 text mode.  This option is only needed if the clocks reported
.\"0 by the server when started from a high-resolution text mode differ from
.\"0 those reported when it is started from an 80x25 text mode.
\fBhibit_low\fP, \fBhibit_high\fP - Tseng 製 ET4000 チップセットに指定
する。ET4000 カードによっては、高解像度のテキストモードから起動した場
合に、サーバが高次のクロック選択ビットを取得することが困難なものがある。
このオプションを使うと、ビットの正しい初期状態を指定することができる。
正しい初期状態を見つけるためには、サーバを 80x25 テキストモードから起
動する。このオプションを指定する必要があるのは、高解像度のテキストモー
ドから起動したときと、80x25 テキストモードから起動したときでサーバが通
知するクロックが異なる場合だけである。
.sp
.\"0 \fB8clocks\fP - for the PVGA1 chipset the default is 4 clocks.  Some
.\"0 cards with this chipset may support 8 clocks.  Specifying this option
.\"0 will allow the driver to detect and use the extra clocks.
\fB8clocks\fP - デフォルトでクロックを4つ持つ PVGA1 チップセットで使用
する。このチップを使ったカードでも 8 つのクロックをサポートしているこ
とがある。このオプションを指定すると、追加の 4つのクロックの検出・利用
ができるようになる。
.sp
.\"0 \fB16clocks\fP - for Trident TVGA8900B and 8900C chipsets.  Some newer boards
.\"0 using 8900B and 8900C chipsets actually support 16 clocks rather than the
.\"0 standard 8 clocks.  Such boards will have a "TCK9002" or "TCK9004" chip
.\"0 on them.  Specifying this option will allow the driver to detect and use
.\"0 the extra 8 clocks.
\fB16clocks\fP - Trident 製 TVGA8900B, 8900C チップセットで使用する。
8900B や 8900C を用いた新しいボードでは、標準の 8 個のクロックではなく、
実際には 16個のクロックをサポートしていることがある。このようなボード
には "TCK9002" または "TCK9004" チップが載っている。このオプションを指
定すると、ドライバは追加の 8 個クロックの検出・利用が可能になる。
.sp
.\"0 \fBpower_saver\fP - This option enables the server
.\"0 to use the power saving features of VESA DPMS compatible monitors.
\fBpower_saver\fP - このオプションは、VESA DPMS 互換のモニタの省電力機
能を有効にする。
.\"0 The suspend level is currently not supported.
サスペンドレベルは現在はサポートされていない。
.\"0 Refer to the \fIXF86Config(4/5)\fP
.\"0 manual page for details of how to set the timeouts for the different levels
.\"0 of operation.  This option is experimental.
異なるレベルの操作でのタイムアウト値の設定方法については、オンラインマ
ニュアルの \fIXF86Config(4/5)\fP を参照すること。このオプションは実験
的なものである。
.sp
.\"0 \fBsecondary\fP - for the hgc1280 and apollo9 chipsets. This option allows
.\"0 to use these cards jumpered to the secondary I/O / memory address.
\fBsecondary\fP - hgc1280 と apollo9 チップセットで指定する。このオプ
ションは、セカンダリの I/O やメモリアドレスを持つこれらのカードを使用
可能にする。
.\"0 These addresses are:
これらのアドレスは以下である:
.RS 8
.TP 4
hgc1280:
.\"0 I/O 0x3B0-0x3BF, mem 0xB0000-0xBFFFF (prim.)
I/O 0x3B0-0x3BF, mem 0xB0000-0xBFFFF (プライマリ)
.br
.\"0 I/O 0x390-0x39F, mem 0xC8000-0xCFFFF (sec.)
I/O 0x390-0x39F, mem 0xC8000-0xCFFFF (セカンダリ)
.TP 4
apollo9:
.\"0 I/O 0x3B0-0x3BF, mem 0xFA0000-0xFDFFFF (prim.)
I/O 0x3B0-0x3BF, mem 0xFA0000-0xFDFFFF (プライマリ)
.br
.\"0 I/O 0x3D0-0x3DF, mem 0xA0000-0xDFFFF (sec.)
I/O 0x3D0-0x3DF, mem 0xA0000-0xDFFFF (セカンダリ)
.RE
.RS 8
.\"0 \fIXFree86\fP can detect the HGC-1280 on both primary and secondary
.\"0 address; for the apollo card the primary address is used by default.
\fIXFree86\fP は HGC-1280 をプライマリとセカンダリの両方のアドレスで検
出することができる。apollo のカードでは、プライマリのアドレスがデフォ
ルトで使用される。
.RE
.ig
.\"0 intern_disp (use internal display for laptops -- WD90C2x)
intern_disp (ノートマシンの内蔵ディスプレイを使用する -- WD90C2x)
.\"0 extern_disp (use external display for laptops -- WD90C2x)
extern_disp (ノートマシンの外付けディスプレイを使用する -- WD90C2x)
..
.PP
.\"0 Note that \fIXFree86\fP has some internal capabilities to determine
.\"0 what hardware
.\"0 it is running on. Thus normally the keywords \fIchipset\fP, \fIclocks\fP,
.\"0 and \fIvideoram\fP don't have to be specified.  But there
.\"0 may be occasions when this autodetection mechanism fails, (for example, too
.\"0 high of load on the machine when you start the server).  For cases like this,
.\"0 one should first run \fIXF86_Mono\fP on an unloaded machine, look at the
.\"0 results of the autodetection (that are printed out during server startup)
.\"0 and then explicitly specify these parameters in the configuration file.
\fIXFree86\fP には、動作しているハードウェアを知るための内部的な機能が
ある点に注意すること。したがって、普通は\fIchipset\fP, \fIclocks\fP,
\fIvideoram\fP を指定する必要はない。しかし、自動検出機能がうまく動作
しない場合がある(例えば、サーバの起動時にマシンの負荷が高すぎるとき)。
このような場合のために、まずは負荷の低いときに \fIXF86_Mono\fP を実行
し、自動検出の結果を調べ(サーバの起動時に出力される)、このパラメータを
明示的に設定ファイルに指定する。
.\"0 \fBIt is recommended that all parameters, especially Clock values,
.\"0 be specified in the XF86Config file.\fP
\fBXF86Config には全てのパラメータ(特に Clock 値)を指定することが望ましい。\fP
.PP
.SH ファイル
.TP 30
<XRoot>/bin/XF86_Mono
.\"0 The monochrome X server for VGA, SVGA and other monochrome cards
VGA, SVGA, その他のモノクロのカード用の モノクロ X サーバ
.TP 30
/etc/XF86Config
.\"0 Server configuration file
サーバ設定ファイル
.TP 30
<XRoot>/lib/X11/XF86Config
.\"0 Server configuration file
サーバ設定ファイル
.LP
.\"0 Note: <XRoot> refers to the root of the X11 install tree.
注: <XRoot> は X11 のインストールツリーのルートディレクトリを指す。
.SH 関連項目
X(1), Xserver(1), XFree86(1), XF86Config(4/5), xf86config(1),
xvidtune(1), xdm(1), xinit(1)
.SH バグ
.\"0 There are no known bugs at this time, although we welcome reports emailed
.\"0 to the address listed below.
現時点では既知のバグはないが、バグレポートは歓迎である。レポートは以下
のアドレスに電子メールで送ること。
.SH 連絡先
.\"0 \fIXFree86\fP source is available from the FTP server
.\"0 \fIftp.XFree86.org\fP.  Send email to
.\"0 \fIXFree86@XFree86.org\fP for details.
\fIXFree86\fP のソースは FTP サーバ \fIftp.XFree86.org\fP で入手可能で
ある。詳細は \fIXFree86@XFree86.org\fP に電子メールを送ること。
.SH 著者
.PP
.\"0 Refer to the
.\"0 .I XFree86(1)
.\"0 manual page.
オンラインマニュアルの
.I XFree86(1)
を参照すること。
.\" $XConsortium: XF86_Mono.man /main/15 1996/12/09 17:33:09 kaleb $
