.\" $XConsortium: XF86Setup.man /main/3 1996/12/09 17:37:49 kaleb $
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/doc/Japanese/man/XF86Setup.1x,v 1.1.2.2 1999/11/26 15:23:32 hohndel Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, dis-
.\" tribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
.\" persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the fol-
.\" lowing conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABIL-
.\" ITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT
.\" SHALL  THE X JAPANESE DOCUMENTATION PROJECT  BE  LIABLE  FOR  ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,  TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM,  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The X Japanese
.\" Documentation Project shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to
.\" promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior
.\" written authorization from The X Japanese Documentation Project.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\"
.\" Translated Sun Mar 14 21:18:19 JST 1999
.\"           by FUJIWARA Teruyoshi <fujiwara@linux.or.jp>
.\"
.TH XF86Setup 1 "Version 3.3.5"  "XFree86"
.SH 名前
.\"0 XF86Setup - Graphical configuration utility for XFree86
XF86Setup - XFree86 用のグラフィカルな設定ユーティリティ
.SH 書式
.B XF86Setup
[ -sync ] [ -name \fIappname\fP ] [ -nodialog ] [ -- \fIarg\fP ...]
.LP
.B XF86Setup
[ -sync ] [ -name \fIappname\fP ] [ -script ]
[ -display \fIdisplay\fP ] [ -geometry \fIgeometry\fP ]
\fIfilename\fP [ [ -- ] \fIarg\fP ... ]
.SH 説明
.\"0 .I XF86Setup
.\"0 is normally used to either perform the initial setup of the XFree86
.\"0 X servers or to make adjustments to the existing configuration.
.I XF86Setup
は通常、XFree86 の X サーバの初期設定を行う場合か、既存の設定を調整す
る場合に使われる。
.PP
.\"0 When used to initially configure the XFree86 servers, it will
.\"0 start the VGA 16 server and then allow configuration settings to be
.\"0 entered.  Once that is completed the appropriate server for the
.\"0 hardware will be started and the configuration settings will be
.\"0 saved.
XFree86 のサーバの初期設定を行うために使われたときは、
.I XF86Setup
は VGA16 サーバを起動し、設定を入力できるようになる。一度これが終わる
と、ハードウェアに合った適切なサーバが起動され、設定が保存される。
.PP
.\"0 For a more complete description see the \fIQuick-Start Guide to
.\"0 XFree86 Setup\fP.
さらに詳しい説明については、「\fIQuick-Start Guide to XFree86 Setup\fP」
ドキュメントを参照すること。
.PP
.\"0 When run from within an already running server environment (e.g.
.\"0 from an xterm window),
.\"0 .I XF86Setup
.\"0 can be used to make adjustments to the current server configuration.
既にサーバが動作している環境で(例えば xterm のウィンドウから)実行され
たとき、
.I XF86Setup
を使って現在のサーバの設定を調整することができる。
.PP
.\"0 Note that when the existing XF86Config file is read, it is used to
.\"0 set the default values for various settings, but the complete contents
.\"0 of the existing file are not preserved.  For example, when the new
.\"0 XF86Config file is written, it will \fInot\fP contain any additional
.\"0 comment lines from the original file.
既存の XF86Config ファイルを読み込んだとき、このファイルを使って各種設
定に対するデフォルト値の設定が行われるが、既存ファイルの内容が全て保た
れるわけではない。例えば新しい XF86Config ファイルを書き出しても、元の
ファイルに追加されていたコメント行は含まれていない。
.PP
.\"0 When a filename is specified, it is interpreted as a script file
.\"0 containing Tcl/Tk commands to run.  If the filename contains a slash,
.\"0 it is assumed that it specifies the path to the file to execute,
.\"0 otherwise the file is searched for in the user's PATH, unless the
.\"0 \fB-script\fP option is given, in which case, it is expected to
.\"0 exist in the \fIscripts\fP subdirectory of the
.\"0 \fIXF86Setup\fP library directory.
ファイル名が指定されていると、これは実行する Tcl/Tk のコマンドが記述さ
れているスクリプトファイルと解釈される。ファイル名にスラッシュが含まれ
ている場合は、実行するファイルへのパスが指定されているものとして扱われ
る。そうでない場合には、\fB-script\fP オプションが指定されていなければ、
実行したユーザの PATH 環境変数に対してファイルが検索される。
\fB-script\fP オプションが指定されていると、\fIXF86Setup\fP ライブラリ
ディレクトリの \fIscripts\fP サブディレクトリにファイルがあることが期
待される。
.PP
.\"0 The result is entirely dependant on the contents of the file.
実行結果は完全にファイルの内容によって決まる。

.SH 引き数
.TP 14
.B -sync
.\"0 Turn on synchronization for all communication with an X server.
X サーバとの全ての通信において同期を有効にする。
.TP 14
.BI -name " appname"
.\"0 Use \fIappname\fP as the window name.
ウィンドウ名として \fIappname\fP を用いる。
.TP 14
.BI -display " display"
.\"0 Specify the display to talk to.
通信するディスプレイを指定する。
.TP 14
.B -nodialog
.\"0 Do not use the Dialog program for text mode user interaction.
.\"0 Normally \fIXF86Setup\fP will use the Dialog program, if it is
.\"0 found in the user's PATH, otherwise a simple text interface is used.
テキストモードでユーザとの対話処理を行う際に Dialog プログラムを使用し
ない。ユーザの PATH に Dialog プログラムがある場合には、通常 
\fIXF86Setup\fP はこのプログラムを使用し、無い場合には間単なテキストイ
ンタフェースを使用する。
.TP 14
.BI -geometry " geomspec"
.\"0 Specify the initial geometry for the window.
ウィンドウの初期ジオメトリを指定する。
.TP 14
.BI -script
.\"0 Look for the specified filename in the \fIscripts\fP directory,
.\"0 instead of searching the user's PATH (if the filename doesn't
.\"0 specify a path).
(ファイル名がパスで指定されていない場合に)指定されたファイル名をユーザ
の PATH からではなく \fIscripts\fP ディレクトリから探す。
.SH 環境変数
.TP 14
.B PATH
.\"0 Used to search for the location of the Dialog program
Dialog プログラムの場所を探すために使う。
.TP 14
.B XWINHOME
.\"0 If set, indicates the parent directory of X bin and lib directories.
設定されている場合、X のバイナリとライブラリのディレクトリの親ディレク
トリを示す。
.TP 14
.B XF86SETUPLIB
.\"0 If set, overrides the default location of the library directory
.\"0 (normally <XRoot>/lib/X11/XF86Setup).
設定されている場合、ライブラリディレクトリのデフォルトの位置(通常は
<XRoot>/lib/X11/XF86Setup)を上書きする。
.TP 14
.B TMPDIR
.\"0 Directory in which to store temporary files (defaults to /tmp)
テンポラリファイルを置くディレクトリ(デフォルト値は /tmp)。
.SH ファイル
<XRoot>/lib/X11/XF86Config
.br
\fIor\fP /etc/XF86Config
.RS 14
.\"0 Can optionally be read to set default values
.\"0 for configuration settings
設定を行う際のデフォルト値を読み込むために、オプションとして使われる。
.RE
.SH 関連項目
\fIQuick-Start Guide to XFree86 Setup\fP
.br
Xserver(1), XFree86(1), XF86Config(4/5), xvidtune(1), xdm(1),
xf86config(1), xinit(1), XF86Misc(3), XF86VidMode(3),
xmseconfig(1), dialog(1)
.SH 著者
.PP
Joe Moss, \fIjoe@XFree86.org\fP
.SH バグ
.\"0 Does not support all possible configurations, for example,
.\"0 graphics tablets must be configured by editing the XF86Config
.\"0 file manually.
考えられる機器構成を全てサポートしているわけではない。例えばグラフィッ
クスタブレットを設定するためには、XF86Config ファイルを手動で編集しな
ければならない。
