spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/basic-arithmetic-uvec2-imagestore: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/basic-imageatomicexchange: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/basic-imagestore: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/explicit-image-binding: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/fs-const-index-three-dimensions: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/fs-struct-non-const-index: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/image-vertex-attrib-input-output: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/image-vertex-uniform-input-output: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/multiple-resident-images-reading: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/images/ubo-named-block: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/basic-arithmetic-uvec2-texture2d: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/basic-texture2d: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/basic-ubo-binding-texture2d: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/basic-ubo-texture2d: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/explicit-texture-binding: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/fs-const-index-three-dimensions: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/fs-struct-non-const-index: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/sampler-in-struct: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/sampler-vertex-attrib-input-output: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/sampler-vertex-uniform-input-output: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/execution/samplers/ubo-named-block: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/linker/global_bindless_image_and_bound_image: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/linker/global_bindless_image_and_bound_sampler: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/linker/global_bindless_sampler_and_bindless_image: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/linker/global_bindless_sampler_and_bound_image: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/linker/global_bindless_sampler_and_bound_sampler: skip
spec/arb_bindless_texture/linker/global_bound_sampler_and_bound_image: skip
spec/arb_compute_variable_group_size/execution/basic-local-size: skip
spec/arb_compute_variable_group_size/execution/fixed-local-size: skip
spec/arb_compute_variable_group_size/execution/global-invocation-id: skip
spec/arb_compute_variable_group_size/execution/separate-global-id: skip
spec/arb_compute_variable_group_size/execution/separate-global-id-2: skip
spec/arb_compute_variable_group_size/linker/mixed_fixed_variable_local_work_size: skip
spec/arb_compute_variable_group_size/linker/no_local_size_specified: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/2darray-basic: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/clip-distance-bulk-copy: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/clip-distance-in-bulk-read: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/clip-distance-in-bulk-read-aoa: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/clip-distance-in-explicitly-sized: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/clip-distance-in-param: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/clip-distance-in-param-aoa: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/clip-distance-in-values: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/generate-zero-primitives: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/sanity: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/texcoord-constant-indices: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/execution/texcoord-non-constant-indices: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/2darray-bounds-and-sizes-check: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/2darray-vertex-index-oob: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/input-overrun-lines: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/input-overrun-lines-adjacency: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/input-overrun-points: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/input-overrun-triangles: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/input-overrun-triangles-adjacency: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/no-vertex-shader-only-built-in-input-varyings: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/no-vertex-shader-only-built-in-input-varyings-ext-separate-shader-objects: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/no-vertex-shader-user-defined-input-varying: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/varying-mismatch: skip
spec/arb_geometry_shader4/linker/verticesin-const: skip
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat2-mat2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat2x3-mat2x3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat2x4-mat2x4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat3-mat3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat3x2-mat3x2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat3x4-mat3x4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat4-mat4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat4x2-mat4x2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat4x3-mat4x3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-double-float: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dvec2-vec2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dvec3-vec3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dvec4-vec4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat2-mat2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat2x3-mat2x3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat2x4-mat2x4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat3-mat3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat3x2-mat3x2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat3x4-mat3x4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat4-mat4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat4x2-mat4x2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat4x3-mat4x3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-double-float: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dvec2-vec2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dvec3-vec3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dvec4-vec4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat2-mat2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat2x3-mat2x3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat2x4-mat2x4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat3-mat3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat3x2-mat3x2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat3x4-mat3x4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat4-mat4: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat4x2-mat4x2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat4x3-mat4x3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-double-float: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dvec2-vec2: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dvec3-vec3: fail
spec/arb_gpu_shader_fp64/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dvec4-vec4: fail
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-ballot: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-ballot-if-else: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-builtin-variables: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-readfirstinvocation-uint: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-readfirstinvocation-uint-if: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-readfirstinvocation-uint-loop: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-readfirstinvocation-uint-uniform: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-readinvocation-uint: skip
spec/arb_shader_ballot/execution/fs-readinvocation-uint-uniform: skip
spec/arb_shader_clock/execution/clock: skip
spec/arb_shader_clock/execution/clock2x32: skip
spec/arb_shader_storage_buffer_object/execution/ssbo-atomiccompswap-int: fail
spec/arb_tessellation_shader/execution/gs-primitiveid-instanced: fail
spec/ext_demote_to_helper_invocation/execution/demote: skip
spec/ext_demote_to_helper_invocation/execution/demote_with_derivatives: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gl/1d: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gl/layered-1darray: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gl/layered-2darray: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gl/layered-cubemap: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles2/mrt: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles2/nonuniform-ss: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles2/nonuniform-ss-redecl-highp: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles2/nonuniform-ss-redecl-lowp: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles2/simple-ss: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/discard-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/discard-ss: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/integer-ms2: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/integer-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/integer-ss: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/mrt: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/nonuniform-ms16: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/nonuniform-ms2: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/nonuniform-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/nonuniform-ss: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/overwrite: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/simple-ms16: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/simple-ms2: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/simple-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/simple-ss: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/single-slice-2darray: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/single-slice-2darray-mipmap: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/single-slice-3d: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/single-slice-cubemap: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch/execution/gles3/texture: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch_non_coherent/execution/gles3/discard-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch_non_coherent/execution/gles3/integer-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch_non_coherent/execution/gles3/nonuniform-ms16: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch_non_coherent/execution/gles3/nonuniform-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch_non_coherent/execution/gles3/simple-ms16: skip
spec/ext_shader_framebuffer_fetch_non_coherent/execution/gles3/simple-ms8: skip
spec/ext_shader_image_load_formatted/execution/image_checkerboard: skip
spec/glsl-1.10/preprocessor/extension-defined-test: skip
spec/glsl-1.10/preprocessor/extension-if-1: skip
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat2-mat2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat2x3-mat2x3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat2x4-mat2x4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat3-mat3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat3x2-mat3x2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat3x4-mat3x4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat4-mat4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat4x2-mat4x2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dmat4x3-mat4x3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-double-float: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dvec2-vec2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dvec3-vec3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/frag-conversion-explicit-dvec4-vec4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat2-mat2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat2x3-mat2x3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat2x4-mat2x4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat3-mat3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat3x2-mat3x2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat3x4-mat3x4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat4-mat4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat4x2-mat4x2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dmat4x3-mat4x3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-double-float: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dvec2-vec2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dvec3-vec3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/geom-conversion-explicit-dvec4-vec4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat2-mat2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat2x3-mat2x3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat2x4-mat2x4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat3-mat3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat3x2-mat3x2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat3x4-mat3x4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat4-mat4: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat4x2-mat4x2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dmat4x3-mat4x3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-double-float: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dvec2-vec2: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dvec3-vec3: fail
spec/glsl-4.00/execution/conversion/vert-conversion-explicit-dvec4-vec4: fail
spec/glsl-4.50/execution/ssbo-atomiccompswap-int: fail
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/shared-atomiccompswap-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/shared-atomicexchange-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/shared-atomicmax-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/shared-atomicmin-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomiccompswap-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomiccompswap-float-nan: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomiccompswap-float-negative-zero: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomicexchange-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomicmax-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomicmax-float-nan: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomicmin-float: skip
spec/intel_shader_atomic_float_minmax/execution/ssbo-atomicmin-float-nan: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-absolutedifference-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-absolutedifference-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-absolutedifference-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-absolutedifference-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-addsaturate-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-addsaturate-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-addsaturate-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-addsaturate-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-average-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-average-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-average-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-average-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-averagerounded-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-averagerounded-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-averagerounded-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-averagerounded-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-countleadingzeros-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-counttrailingzeros-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-multiply32x16-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-multiply32x16-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-subtractsaturate-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-subtractsaturate-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-subtractsaturate-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/fs-subtractsaturate-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-absolutedifference-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-absolutedifference-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-absolutedifference-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-absolutedifference-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-addsaturate-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-addsaturate-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-addsaturate-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-addsaturate-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-average-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-average-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-average-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-average-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-averagerounded-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-averagerounded-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-averagerounded-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-averagerounded-uint64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-countleadingzeros-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-counttrailingzeros-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-multiply32x16-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-multiply32x16-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-subtractsaturate-int: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-subtractsaturate-int64: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-subtractsaturate-uint: skip
spec/intel_shader_integer_functions2/execution/built-in-functions/vs-subtractsaturate-uint64: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/derivatives-coarse-linear: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/derivatives-coarse-quads: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/derivatives-fine-linear: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/derivatives-fine-quads: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/derivatives-none: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/texture-implicit-lod-linear: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/texture-implicit-lod-none: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/execution/texture-implicit-lod-quads: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/linker/fail_linear_size: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/linker/fail_quads_x: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/linker/fail_quads_y: skip
spec/nv_compute_shader_derivatives/linker/fail_two_arrangements: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/gs-lines-ignore-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/gs-points-ignore-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/gs-tris-with-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/lines-ignore-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/points-ignore-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/tes-isolines-ignore-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/tes-tris-in-point-mode-ignore-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/tes-tris-with-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_fill_rectangle/execution/tris-with-fill-rect: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_float/execution/shared-atomicadd-float: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_float/execution/shared-atomicexchange-float: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_float/execution/ssbo-atomicadd-float: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_float/execution/ssbo-atomicexchange-float: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicadd-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicand-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicand-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomiccompswap-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicexchange-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicmax-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicmax-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicmin-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicmin-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicor-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicor-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicxor-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/shared-atomicxor-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicadd-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicand-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicand-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomiccompswap-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicexchange-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicmax-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicmax-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicmin-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicmin-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicor-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicor-uint: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicxor-int: skip
spec/nv_shader_atomic_int64/execution/ssbo-atomicxor-uint: skip
spec/nv_viewport_array2/execution/viewport_broadcast: skip
spec/nv_viewport_array2/execution/viewport_non_relative_broadcast: skip
spec/nv_viewport_array2/execution/viewport_relative_broadcast: skip
spec/nv_viewport_array2/linker/mismatched_viewport_relative: skip
spec/nv_viewport_swizzle/viewport_swizzle: skip
