.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/getconfig/cfg.man,v 1.4 2005/02/09 20:55:57 dawes Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2003-2005 David H. Dawes.
.\" Copyright © 2003-2005 X-Oz Technologies.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"     copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"     disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"     with the distribution.
.\" 
.\"  3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,
.\"     if any, must include the following acknowledgment: "This product
.\"     includes software developed by X-Oz Technologies
.\"     (http://www.x-oz.com/)."  Alternately, this acknowledgment may
.\"     appear in the software itself, if and wherever such third-party
.\"     acknowledgments normally appear.
.\"
.\"  4. Except as contained in this notice, the name of X-Oz
.\"     Technologies shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to
.\"     promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without
.\"     prior written authorization from X-Oz Technologies.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL X-OZ TECHNOLOGIES OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
.\" OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Author: David Dawes <dawes@x-oz.com>.
.\"
.TH getconfig __filemansuffix__  __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
getconfig - meta configuration files for getconfig(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \(**.cfg
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getconfig
is a programmatic interface that is used by the
.B XFree86
server to get configuration information about video hardware when
operating without an
.B XF86Config
file.
.PP
This implementation of
.B getconfig
is written in perl.  It processes rules from meta-configuration files.
All meta-configuration files have a
.I .cfg
suffix.
.PP
Lines starting with a pound-sign (#) are comments, and are ignored.
Blank lines that consist only of white space are also treated as comments
and ignored.
.PP
The first non-comment line must be a signature string followed by
the file format version number.  The signature string is
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
"XFree86 Project getconfig rules file.\ \ Version: "
.fi
.RE
.PP
The currently defined version is "1.0".  Files that do not have the
correct signature string are ignored.
.PP
The remaining non-comment lines define rules.  The start of a new rule
is indicated by a line with no leading white space.  Subsequent lines
making up a rule must be indented with white space.  Logical lines within
a rule may be split over multiple physical lines by using the usual
continuation convention ('\e' at the end of the line).  The first logical
line of each rule is a perl expression.  It may be any valid perl
expression whose evaluated (with 'eval') result may be used as the
argument to a perl 'if' statement.  The second logical line should be
the name of the XFree86 video driver to use when the rule is true, and
subsequent logical lines of each rule, if present, are additional
configuration output for the video device's
.B XF86Config
.B Device
section.  The driver name and additional lines of configuration information
are written to standard output when the rule is chosen as the successful
rule.
.PP
Pseudo rules consisting of perl expressions may be present in the file
for the purpose of defining custom perl variables or setting the weight
to use for the following rules.  Pseudo rules are rules that consist of
a single logical line only, and they are never candidates themselves for the
successful rule.
.PP
Several perl variables are pre-defined, and may be used within rules.
They include:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.BR "$vendor                 " "PCI vendor ID"
.BR "$device                 " "PCI device ID"
.BR "$revision               " "PCI revision ID"
.BR "$subsys                 " "PCI subsystem ID"
.BR "$subsysVendor           " "PCI subsystem vendor ID"
.BR "$class                  " "PCI class"
.BR "$sbuspath               " "SBUS path"
.BR "$XFree86Version         " "XFree86 version, as a 'v' string"
.BR "$XFree86VersionNumeric  " "XFree86 numeric version"
.BR "$XFree86VersionMajor    " "XFree86 major version"
.BR "$XFree86VersionMinor    " "XFree86 minor version"
.BR "$XFree86VersionPatch    " "XFree86 patch version"
.BR "$XFree86VersionSnap     " "XFree86 snap version"
.BR "$weight                 " "current rule weight"
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B $weight
variable determines the weight of the rules as they are processed.  The
weight for subsequent rules may be set with a pseudo rule that sets or
changes the value of
.BR $weight .
The default weight, and the weight used for built-in rules is 500.  The
meta-configuration files are processed in an unpredictable order.  The
weighting of the rules is used to determine their relative priority
.PP
After processing all of the rules, both built-in and those read from
the meta-configuration files, the
.B getconfig
program chooses as the successful rule the last and highest weighted
rule that evaluates to true.
.SH FILES
.I .cfg
files located in the search path.  The search path typically specified
by the
.B XFree86
server is:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.I /etc/X11
.I __projectroot__/etc/X11
.I <modulepath>
.I __projectroot__/lib/X11/getconfig
.fi
.RE
.PP
where
.I <modulepath>
is the
.B XFree86
server's module search path.
.PP
.TP 30
.I __projectroot__/lib/X11/getconfig/xfree86.cfg
Default rules file that gets installed.  This file doesn't contain any
rules by default.
.TP 30
.I __projectroot__/lib/X11/getconfig/cfg.sample
A sample rules file that gives some examples of what types of rules can
appear in rules files.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
getconfig(1),
XFree86(1),
XF86Config(__filemansuffix__).

.SH AUTHORS
The XFree86 automatic configuration support and the
.B getconfig
interface was written by David H. Dawes, with the support of X-Oz
Technologies.
