.\" $TOG: xdpyinfo.man /main/22 1998/02/09 13:57:10 kaleb $
.\" Copyright 1988, 1989, 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\" 
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/glxinfo/glxinfo.man,v 1.1 2000/09/22 11:35:46 alanh Exp $
.\"
.TH GLXINFO 1 "Release 6.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
glxinfo \- display info about a GLX extension and OpenGL renderer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "glxinfo"
[\-t]
[\-v]
[\-display \fIdisplayname\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I glxinfo
lists information about the GLX extension, OpenGL capable visuals, and the
OpenGL renderer on an X server. The GLX and renderer info includes the version
and extension attributes. The visual info lists the GLX visual attributes 
available for each OpenGL capable visual (e.g. whether the visual is double
buffered, the component sizes, Z-buffering depth, etc).
.PP
Command line options include:
.PP
\fB-t\fP By default the visual info is presented in a conccise 80 character wide
tabular format. The -t option directs glxinfo to produce a wider, more readable
tabular format.
.PP
\fB-v\fP Directs glxinfo to generate a verbose format output style for
the visual list similar to the info of xdpyinfo.
.PP
     \fB-display displayName\fP Specify the display to query.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xdpyinfo(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Paul
.br
Modifications for XFree86 added by Mark Paton
