.\" $XConsortium: Consortium.man /main/65 1996/03/12 13:13:16 gildea $
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994, 1996  X Consortium
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF 
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not 
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other 
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the 
.\" X Consortium.
.TH XCONSORTIUM 1 "Release 6.1"  "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
XConsortium \- X Consortium information
.SH SYNOPSIS
Release 6.1 of X Version 11 is brought to you by X Consortium, Inc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The X Consortium is an independent, not-for-profit Delaware membership
corporation.  It was formed in 1993 as the successor to the MIT X Consortium.
The purpose of the X Consortium is to foster the development, evolution, and
maintenance of the X Window System, a comprehensive set of vendor-neutral,
system-architecture neutral, network-transparent windowing and user interface
standards.
.PP
The X Window System was created in the mid-1980s at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.  In 1988, MIT formed a member-funded consortium to
provide the technical and administrative leadership necessary to support
further development of the X Window System.  In 1992, MIT and the membership
decided it was in their best interests to move the consortium out of MIT and
create an independent, stand-alone organization.  All rights to the
X Window System were assigned by MIT to X Consortium, Inc. on January 1, 1994.
.PP
The X Consortium is financially self-supporting through membership fees.
There are no license fees associated with the use of X Window System standards
and code developed by the X Consortium.  Membership in the X Consortium is
open to any organization willing to execute a membership agreement.
.PP
The X Consortium is a highly participative body.  Members are encouraged to
actively cooperate with the staff and other members in the design and review
of proposed specifications, and in the design, coding and testing of sample
implementations of those specifications.
.PP
The X Consortium accomplishes most of its work using electronic mail over the
Internet, with individual mailing lists for working groups.  Internet
electronic mail connectivity should be viewed as a requirement for useful
participation in X Consortium activities.  Meetings are held as necessary,
often in conjunction with industry conferences and trade shows.
.SH STAFF
.nf
President:
Bob Scheifler, rws@x.org, phone: 617-374-1010

Office Manager:
Janet O'Halloran, joh@x.org, phone: 617-374-1011

Director of Marketing:
Paul Lavallee, pcl@x.org, phone: 617-374-1012

Director of Engineering:
Jim Fournier, jff@x.org

Manager, X Window System:
Matt Landau, matt@x.org

Technical Director, X Window System:
Ralph Swick, swick@x.org

Technical Staff, X Window System:

Donna Converse, converse@x.org
Stephen Gildea, gildea@x.org
Kaleb Keithley, kaleb@x.org
Ralph Mor, mor@x.org
Ray Tice, ray@x.org
Dave Wiggins, dpw@x.org
Mark Welch, mw@x.org

Managers, CDE Development:
Peter Bohnert, peter@x.org
Giora Guth, gguth@x.org

Manager, CDE Quality Engineering:
David Brooks, dbrooks@x.org

CDE Architects:
Daniel Dardailler, daniel@x.org
Kevin Samborn, samborn@x.org

Technical Staff, CDE Development:

Art Barstow, barstow@x.org
Pascale Dardailler, pascale@x.org
David Kaelbling, drk@x.org
Arnaud le Hors, lehors@x.org
Mitch Greess, mgreess@x.org
Robert Seacord, rcs@x.org

Technical Staff, CDE Quality Engineering:

Chris Burleson, burleson@x.org
Ting Hsu, ting@x,org
Sami Mohammed, sami@x.org
Mark Schuldenfrei, schuldy@x.org

Technical Staff, Systems Administration:
Amy Rich, arr@x.org
Anne Salemme, anne@x.org
Mike Donati, donati@x.org
.fi

.SH "BOARD OF DIRECTORS"
The X Consortium's activities and affairs are managed under the direction and
oversight of a Board of Directors, elected annually by the Members.  The Board
is responsible for reviewing the achievements of the Consortium, approving
planned work, appointing a President and other officers of the Consortium, and
setting membership dues.  The current Directors are:

.nf
Robert W. Scheifler, President, X Consortium
Ray Anderson, Senior VP, IXI Limited
Dr. Forest Baskett, Senior VP of R&D, Silicon Graphics Computer Systems
Harold D. Blair, Apogee International Corp.
Roger S. Gourd, Gourd & Associates
Dr. Robin Hillyard, Chairman and Chief Technical Officer, Novasoft Systems
Don McGovern, General Operations Manager and Executive Dir., Hewlett Packard
Therese E. Myers, Chief Executive Officer, Bouquet Multimedia
Peter J. Shaw, Senior VP, NetManage
Michael Tobias, President, Tech-Source, Inc.
.fi

.SH "ADDRESS"
The X Consortium can be reached at:
.nf

X Consortium
201 Broadway
Cambridge MA 02139-1955
Tel: 617-374-1000
Fax: 617-374-1025
membership@x.org

To reach the X Consortium public Wide World Web server, use the URL:
http://www.x.org/

To reach the X Consortium public ftp machine, use anonymous ftp to:
ftp.x.org
.fi
.SH "FULL MEMBERS"

.nf
Adobe Systems Inc.
AT&T Global Information Solutions
Cray Research, Inc.
Digital Equipment Corp.
Fujitsu Limited
Hewlett-Packard Company
Hitachi Ltd.
IBM Corporation
Megatek Corp.
Motorola, Inc.
NEC Corporation
Novell, Inc.
Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd.
OMRON Corporation
SCO, Inc.
Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG
Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Sony Corporation
Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Tektronix, Inc.
.fi

.SH "ASSOCIATE MEMBERS"

.nf
CETIA \- Compagnie Europeene des Techniques de l'Ingenierie Assistee
Insignia Solutions, Ltd.
NetManage, Inc.
Network Computing Devices
Quarterdeck Corp.
SunRiver Data Systems
Walker Richer & Quinn, Inc.
.fi

.SH "END USERS"

.nf
Hughes Aircraft Company
.fi

.SH "AFFILIATE MEMBERS"

.nf
ASTEC, Inc.
BARCO Chromatics, Inc.
CenterLine Software, Inc.
CliniComp, Intl.
Component Integration Laboratories, Inc.
Electronic Book Technologies, Inc.
Gallium Software, Inc.
Georgia Institiute of Technology
Human Designed Systems, Inc.
Hummingbird Communications Ltd.
INRIA \- Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique
Integrated Computer Solutions, Inc.
Investment Management Services, Inc.
Jupiter Systems
KL Group Inc.
Mercury Interactive Corp.
Metheus Corporation
Metro Link, Inc.
Object Management Group, Inc.
Open Software Foundation
O'Reilly & Associates, Inc.
Performance Awareness Corp.
Peritek Corp.
Petrotechnical Open Software Corp.
Shiman Associates, Inc.
SOUM Corporation
Spectragraphics Corp.
Tatung Science and Technology
Tech-Source, Inc.
VisiCom Laboratories, Inc.
Visual Information Technologies, Inc.
White Pine Software, Inc.
The XFree86 Project, Inc.
X Inside, Inc.
.fi
